INSERT INTO games_games (name, image, release_date, description, console, price) VALUES('Tetris', 'https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/7/7c/Emacs_Tetris_vector_based_detail.svg/288px-Emacs_Tetris_vector_based_detail.svg.png', '11-01-1984', 'Tetris is a tile-matching puzzle video game originally designed and programmed by Soviet Russian software engineer Alexey Pajitnov in 1984 for the Electronika 60. The game has been published by several companies over time, most prominently during a war for the appropriation of the games rights in the late 1980s. After a significant period of publication by Nintendo, the rights of the game reverted to Pajitnov in 1996, who co-founded The Tetris Company with Henk Rogers to manage licensing for Tetris.

Tetris challenges the player to create complete lines by moving differently-shaped pieces – the tetrominoes, which scroll from the top to bottom of the playing field. The completed lines disappear and grant the player points, and the player can proceed to fill the vacated spaces. The game ends when the playing field is filled to the point that additional pieces can no longer descend. The longer the player can delay this inevitable outcome, the higher their score will be. In multiplayer games, the players must last longer than their opponents, and in certain versions, players can inflict penalties on opponents by completing a significant number of lines. Some adaptations have provided variations to the games theme, such as three-dimensional displays or a system for reserving pieces.

Built on simple rules and requiring intelligence and skill, Tetris has established itself as one of the great early video games titles. Since its creation, Tetris has sold 202 million copies – approximately 70 million physical units and 132 million paid mobile game downloads – as of December 2011, making it one of the best-selling video game franchises of all time; the Game Boy version in particular is one of the best-selling single titles of all time, with over 35 million copies sold. The game is available on over 65 platforms, setting a Guinness world record for the most ported video game title. Tetris is rooted within popular culture and its notoriety extends beyond the sphere of video games; imagery from the game has influenced architecture, music and cosplay. The game has also been the subject of various research studies that have analyzed its theoretical complexity and have shown its effect on the human brain following a session, in particular the Tetris effect.', '4', '29');


INSERT INTO games_games (name, image, release_date, description, console, price) VALUES('Super Mario Land', 'https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/I/61r6BCfbOCL._AC_.jpg', '04-21-1989', 'Super Mario Land is a 1989 side-scrolling platform video game developed and published by Nintendo as a launch title for their Game Boy handheld game console. It is the first Mario platform game ever to be released for a handheld console. In gameplay similar to that of the 1985 Super Mario Bros., but resized for the smaller devices screen, the player advances Mario to the end of 12 levels by moving to the right and jumping across platforms to avoid enemies and pitfalls. Unlike other Mario games, Super Mario Land is set in Sarasaland, a new environment depicted in line art, and Mario pursues Princess Daisy (who makes her debut in this game). The game also includes two Gradius-style shooter levels.

At Nintendo CEO Hiroshi Yamauchis request, Game Boy creator Gunpei Yokois Nintendo R&D1 developed a Mario game to sell the new console. It was the first portable version of Mario and the first to be made without Mario creator and Yokoi protégé Shigeru Miyamoto. Accordingly, the development team shrunk Mario gameplay elements for the device and used some elements inconsistently from the series. Super Mario Land was expected to showcase the console until Nintendo of America bundled Tetris with new Game Boys. The game launched alongside the Game Boy first in Japan (April 1989) and later worldwide. Super Mario Land was later rereleased for the Nintendo 3DS via Virtual Console in 2011 again as a launch title, which featured some tweaks to the games presentation.

The game was lauded by critics, who were satisfied with the franchises transition to the Game Boy, but noted its short length. The handheld console became an immediate success and Super Mario Land ultimately sold over 18 million copies, more than that of Super Mario Bros. 3. Both contemporaneous and retrospective reviewers particularly praised the games soundtrack. The game begot a series of sequels, including Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins (1992) and Wario Land: Super Mario Land 3 (1994), the latter of which would later be spun-off into its own sub-series. Considered among the consoles best launch titles, the game has been included in several top Game Boy game lists and debuted Princess Daisy as a recurring Mario series character.', '4', '29');


INSERT INTO games_games (name, image, release_date, description, console, price) VALUES('Pokémon Red and Blue', 'https://assets.pokemon.com/assets/cms2/img/video-games/video-games/pokemon_red_blue/pokemon_red_blue_main_169.jpg', '09-28-1998', 'Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version are role-playing video games developed by Game Freak and published by Nintendo for the Game Boy. They are the first installments of the Pokémon video game series. They were first released in Japan in 1996 as Pocket Monsters Red and Pocket Monsters Green, with the special edition Pocket Monsters Blue being released in Japan later that same year. The games were later released as Pokémon Red and Pokémon Blue in North America and Australia in 1998 and Europe in 1999.

Pokémon Yellow, a special edition version, was released in Japan in 1998 and in other regions in 1999 and 2000. Remakes of Pokémon Red and Green for the Game Boy Advance, Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, were released in 2004. Pokémon Red, Blue, and Yellow (in addition to Green in Japan) were re-released on the Nintendo 3DS Virtual Console service as a commemoration of the franchises 20th anniversary in 2016.

The player controls the protagonist from an overhead perspective and navigates him throughout the fictional region of Kanto in a quest to master Pokémon battling. The goal of the games is to become the champion of the Indigo League by defeating the eight Gym Leaders and then the top four Pokémon trainers in the land, the Elite Four. Another objective is to complete the Pokédex, an in-game encyclopedia, by obtaining the 150 available Pokémon. Red and Blue utilize the Game Link Cable, which connects two Game Boy systems together and allows Pokémon to be traded or battled between games. Both titles are independent of each other but feature the same plot, and while they can be played separately, it is necessary for players to trade between both games in order to obtain all of the original 150 Pokémon.

Red and Blue were well-received with critics praising the multiplayer options, especially the concept of trading. They received an aggregated score of 89% on GameRankings and are considered among the greatest games ever made, perennially ranked on top game lists including at least four years on IGNs "Top 100 Games of All Time". The games releases marked the beginning of what would become a multibillion-dollar franchise, jointly selling over 300 million copies worldwide. In 2009 they appeared in the Guinness Book of World Records under "Best selling RPG on the Game Boy" and "Best selling RPG of all time".', '4', '29.99');

INSERT INTO games_games (name, image, release_date, description, console, price) VALUES('The Legend of Zelda: Links Awakening', 'https://now.estarland.com/images/products/hr/10556/045496730857.jpg', '06-06-1993', 'The Legend of Zelda: Links Awakening is a 1993 action-adventure game developed and published by Nintendo for the Game Boy. It is the fourth installment in the Legend of Zelda series and the first for a handheld game console. Links Awakening is one of the few Zelda games not to take place in the land of Hyrule, and does not feature Princess Zelda or the Triforce relic. Instead, protagonist Link begins the game stranded on Koholint Island, a place guarded by a whale-like deity called the Wind Fish. Assuming the role of Link, the player fights monsters and solves puzzles while searching for eight musical instruments that will awaken the sleeping Wind Fish and allow him to escape from the island.

Development began as an effort to port the Super Nintendo Entertainment System game The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past to the Game Boy, developed after-hours by Nintendo staff. It grew into an original project under the direction of Takashi Tezuka, with a story and script created by Yoshiaki Koizumi and Kensuke Tanabe. The majority of the Link to the Past team reassembled for Links Awakening, and Tezuka wanted the game world to feel like the television series Twin Peaks. After a development period of one and a half years, Links Awakening was released in Japan in June 1993 and worldwide later in the year.

Links Awakening was critically and commercially successful. Critics praised the games depth and number of features; complaints focused on its control scheme and monochrome graphics. An updated rerelease, The Legend of Zelda: Links Awakening DX, was released for the Game Boy Color in 1998 featuring color graphics, compatibility with the Game Boy Printer, and an exclusive color-based dungeon. Together, the two versions of the game have sold more than six million units worldwide, and have appeared on multiple game publications lists of the best video games of all time. A 3D remake was released for the Nintendo Switch in September 2019.
', '4', '29.99');
INSERT INTO games_games (name, image, release_date, description, console, price) VALUES('Donkey Kong Country', 'https://image.konsolenkost.de/item/images/1012605/full/1012605-0_1.jpg', '11-21-1994', 'Donkey Kong Country is a 1994 platform game developed by Rare and published by Nintendo for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System, as part of the Donkey Kong franchise created by Shigeru Miyamoto. The game centers on the duo of Donkey Kong and his nephew Diddy Kong, who are on a quest to recover their stolen banana hoard from King K. Rool and his Kremling henchmen.

Development began shortly after Rare founders, brothers Tim and Chris Stamper, ran experiments with a Silicon Graphics (SGI) workstation to render 3D sprites. Nintendo became interested in Rares work and acquired 49% of the company, leading to the production of a game for the SNES using Alias and SGI technology. The Stamper brothers expressed interest in creating a standalone Donkey Kong game and assembled a team of 12 developers to work on the game over 18 months. Donkey Kong Country is the first Donkey Kong game that was not produced or directed by the franchises creator Shigeru Miyamoto, though he was involved with the project.

Following an aggressive marketing campaign, Donkey Kong Country received critical acclaim and sold more than nine million copies worldwide, making it the third best-selling SNES game. Donkey Kong Country redefined the Donkey Kong series by giving the titular ape his own world to live in, and has since been cited as one of the greatest video games of all time. It was ported to the Game Boy Color in 2000 and again for the Game Boy Advance in 2003, and was made available for Nintendos Virtual Console. In 2017, the game was released as a part of the Super NES Classic Edition. Donkey Kong Country received two direct sequels on the SNES: Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddys Kong Quest in 1995, and Donkey Kong Country 3: Dixie Kongs Double Trouble! in 1996. After a 14-year hiatus, the series was revived in 2010 with the release of Donkey Kong Country Returns.
', '4', '29.99');